So we've talked about domain models and
the role that that plays in,
I think, really being kind of
the Genesis of everything that
we are going to build off of
in terms of our application.
And so the next extension
of this is we're going to
revisit our previous initial
primer exercise, and
we're going to talk about
string manipulation.
And so what I wanna do is,
we'll just step out of the slides,
because there was only one, and
I want to look at just a piece of code.
This is from one of the examples.
So if you have any
questions of what this is,
I think this might be
the red stack example.
But more so, I wanted to just pull
up a piece of functional code and
just point out a couple things.
So, this is operating on
top of the course entity,
and so you'll notice here we
have Course with a capital C.
Then we have Courses
plural with a capital C,
then we have courses lowercase.
And if we keep going down,
you'll see here that we have this
interesting typed parameter,
of course, lowercase,
colon Course uppercase.
And if we scroll down, I'm looking for
something specific here.
You'll see here that we have uppercase,
so in the case of a constant
and, There's one more I was looking for,
If I can't find it,
I'm not going to cry for Argentina.
But the idea is that when you
are puling out pieces of a template,
one of the biggest challenges
that you're going to
have when you're hydrating it is
coming up with model name variations.
And so this is why in the primer,
we went ahead and
we experimented with
some ways to replace some
strings, build a couple different things.
And one thing that I do wanna call
out here is that if you go to Lodash,
and I would say that what
you're going to see any
competent string manipulation library.
In fact, a lot of it's even baked
into a lot of just languages
itself is going to have these
functions baked into them.
But with that said, for instance,
if we go to Lodash, they have and
I might have passed it,
they have an entire section for strings.
So camelCase, well,
this is something we use.
Capitalize, kebabCase,
lowerCase, and on and on.
What I believe, this is just
a recommendation from me to you,
hashtag pro tip, is that, I think and
I highly recommend,
if you're using a library,
experiment with building
a version of that.
So I think one of the best
examples is if you use redux,
take the time to build redux,
do it at least once.
And what you'll realize is that you can
build a version of Redux in less than ten
minutes.
But what that does is it gives you
a much clearer sense of what's
happening under the hood.
And I think to a point,
almost I think the essence of the pattern
suddenly becomes a lot clearer.
The other piece is that if you
only need four or five functions,
a lot of times it's easier
just to write those and
segment them out instead of
pulling in an entire library.
So I have nothing against Lodash, in fact,
I think that I actually use
it in various circumstances.
But in the case of this context,
in this exercise,
that we are doing what somebody
would rightfully conclude that,
well, can't you do this in Lodash?
And the answer is yes but
it is important, I believe,
to take the time to go ahead and
write some of these things initially.
So that once you understand it, then you
can leverage it in an automated fashion.
So I've said this before, if you're using
a CLI, don't let that be a crutch and
a barrier between you truly
learning what's happening.
So again, we don't need to learn more, we
need to understand what we already know.
So, if we go to this example
in our stack blitz, so
this is gonna be rad hyphen name,
hyphen generator, hyphen start.
We are going to see the bits and pieces
that we started in the previous exercise.
So we have, replace,
stripDashes, stripUnderscores,
stripSpaces, addDashes, addUnderscores.
And these all are entirely built
upon this replace function here,
which is it takes a string,
a target, a character, and
a sub character, and it's just
splitting and joining it together.
But notice here that I have five
incredibly useful functions that
are just delegating to an underlying
more general function.
And if you really wanted to get fancy,
you could do partial application.
I'm not gonna get into that because it
would take me 20 minutes to explain it.
But we have a very basic function and
we are drilling down in
terms of specificity but
just delegating from one
function into another.
A few other functions that I have
here that I'll just call out.
If I wanna lowercase something,
it's just s toLowerCase toUpperCase
as well as capitalize, decapitalize.
All I'm doing there is I'm saying,
give me the first character and
I wanna uppercase it and
then I wanna take everything after the
first character and just add it together.
And if we wanted to
capitalize an entire string,
we would split on space,
then map over that array.
We know what this is,
capitalize the first letters and
then put it back together
in terms of spaces.
So we had a number of words
that were all lowercase.
You could call this function,
it would split on the space, loop over,
capitalize all the words and
then put it back together.
And this is super handy and
it's most of these, well,
all of these are basically
a single line of code.
Now the one thing that
I do wanna call out or
I want to just point out here is that
JavaScript is a lisp in Java's clothing.
So under the hood, even with TypeScript,
that it looks like a traditional
classical language and
we have types, classes,
private, public members, etc.
But under the hood, it is a lisp,
it was written to be a lisp because
lisps are very easy languages
in terms of compilers to create.
So this is what Brendan Eich did.
But because of marketing reasons,
it became JavaScript.
But with that said is it lends itself to
functional programming principles and
I'm not gonna get into that.
FrontEnd Masters has a ton of amazing
functional JavaScript concepts.
I will not do justice to
anything that Brian Lonsdorf or
Will Sentance or any of those
amazing structures would have but
I have two functions here
that I am leveraging.
So one is a pipe function that
takes in two parameters and
it returns a new function
that accepts arguments, and
then whatever these two functions are,
it will then call them.
And so
it's basically taking two functions,
calling one inside of the other.
And then we have a wrapper
function that allows us to
then pass in a number of
functions as parameters.
And then we're looping over and
we're essentially iterating
over that chain of functions.
So this is pretty hardcore
functional stuff but
what this allows us to do is
create these transformation pipes.
So for instance, if I wanted to
strip a string with dashes and
underscores, I simply create
a function called strip.
And then I define that as transformPipe,
stripDashes stripUnderscores.
Now where this gets interesting, is that
what if I wanted to do start case, so
basically this title case where everything
is capitalized, the first letter.
I would strip everything of
underscores and dashes, and
then I would capitalize everything.
Well, what if I wanted to do pascalCase?
So that's essentially everything is
capitalized and then it's put together, so
the spaces are removed.
Well, I would essentially
turn it into startCase and
then I would strip the spaces.
What if I wanted to do camelCase?
So the difference between pascalCase and
camelCase is the first
letter is lowercase.
So I would say, turn this into pascalCase,
which is gonna say, okay,
well I'm gonna turn this into startCase
but then I'm gonna strip it first.
Both camelCase and so pascalCase and
then it decapitalizes the first letter.
So this is why a lot of times you'll
see something that looks like this,
so let's say we had user courses.
Is this is a camelCase and
this is pascalCase, so
all we're doing is just
making this lowercase.
And then we have snakeCase,
kebabCase and constantCase,
and all we're doing is we're taking
these small little functions.
And we're transforming
them into these pipes that
we're able to send
whatever we want into it.
And it's just passing it from
one function to another.
But under the hood,
we have these very simple,
single purpose, fine grained functions.
So functional programming for the win.